Step by step guide on adding Model Hub support to libraries (#86)
huggingface/huggingface_hub: docs/adding-a-library.md

> # Integrating a library within the hub
> 
> The Hugging Face hub aims to facilitate the sharing of machine learning models, checkpoints, and artifacts. 
> This endeavor starts with the integration of its tool stack within downstream libraries, and we're happy to announce 
> the fruitful collaboration between Hugging Face and SpaCy, AllenNLP, Timm, among many other incredible libraries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Integrating a library within the Hub

The Hugging Face Hub aims to facilitate the sharing of machine learning models, checkpoints, and artifacts. 
This endeavor starts with the integration of its tool stack within downstream libraries, and we're happy to announce 
the fruitful collaboration between Hugging Face and spaCy, AllenNLP, and Timm, among many other incredible libraries.
```

> For a full list of supported libraries see [the following table](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/96e49483ace685cf526492b248ba3341bc1b1564/docs/libraries.md).

> We believe the model hub is a step in the correct direction for several reasons. It offers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We believe the Hub is a step in the correct direction for several reasons. It offers:
```

I would avoid mentioning **model hub**, since we're also looking for dataset integration

- Free model hosting for libraries and their users. Custom plans exist for users wishing to keep their models 
  private but keep the ease of use.

> - Built-in file versioning, even with very large files, thanks to a git-based approach
> - Hosted inference API for all models publicly available

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Built-in file versioning, even with very large files, thanks to a git-based approach.
- Hosted inference API for all models publicly available.
```

- In-browser widgets to play with the uploaded models.

Thanks to these, we hope to achieve true shareability across the machine learning ecosystem, reproducibility, 
and the ability to offer simple solutions directly from the browser. To that end, we're looking to make it very 
simple to integrate the hub within downstream libraries or standalone machine learning models.

The approach can be split in three different steps detailed below:

- The "downstream" approach: downloading files from the hub so that they may be used simply locally.
- The "upstream" approach: creating repositories and uploading files to the hub directly from your library.
- Setting up the inference API for uploaded models.

Before getting started, we recommend you first [create a HuggingFace account](https://huggingface.co/join). This will 
create a namespace on which you can create repositories, and to which you can upload files to.

> 

Reviewer: Maybe we can add something along these lines:

If your library already has a set of existing models, you can create an organization where users would find the canonical models.

(No strong opinion though)

```bash
huggingface-cli login
```

```bash
        _|    _|  _|    _|    _|_|_|    _|_|_|  _|_|_|  _|      _|    _|_|_|      _|_|_|_|    _|_|      _|_|_|  _|_|_|_|
        _|    _|  _|    _|  _|        _|          _|    _|_|    _|  _|            _|        _|    _|  _|        _|
        _|_|_|_|  _|    _|  _|  _|_|  _|  _|_|    _|    _|  _|  _|  _|  _|_|      _|_|_|    _|_|_|_|  _|        _|_|_|
        _|    _|  _|    _|  _|    _|  _|    _|    _|    _|    _|_|  _|    _|      _|        _|    _|  _|        _|
        _|    _|    _|_|      _|_|_|    _|_|_|  _|_|_|  _|      _|    _|_|_|      _|        _|    _|    _|_|_|  _|_|_|_|

        
Username: 
Password:
```

You're now ready to go!

## Downstream: fetching files from the hub

The downstream approach is managed by the `huggingface_hub` library. Three methods may prove helpful when trying to 
retrieve files from the hub:

### `hf_hub_url`

This method can be used to construct the URL of a file from a given repository. For example, the 
repository [`lysandre/arxiv-nlp`](https://huggingface.co/lysandre/arxiv-nlp) has a few model, configuration and tokenizer files:

> ![Images/repo.png](Images/repo.png)

Reviewer: I think this might not work in hf.co just like this (I just realized a widget screenshot in the other PR has problems when trying)

Reviewer 2: this can be fixed easily on our side, maybe just rename `Images` to `assets` to stick with our unofficial convention? (like for the blog for example)

```

The file is now downloaded and stored in my cache: `~/.cache/huggingface/hub`. It isn't necessarily noticeable for 
small files such as a configuration file - but larger files, such as model files would be hard to work with if they 
had to be re-downloaded every time. Additionally, these large files will always be downloaded with a blazing fast
download speed: we use Cloudfront (a CDN) to geo-replicate downloads across the globe.

If the repository is updated with a new version of the file we just downloaded, then the `huggingface_hub` will 
download the new version and store it in the cache next time, without any action needed from your part to specify 
it should fetch an updated version

### `snapshot_download`

The `hf_hub_url` and `cached_download` combo works wonders when you have a fixed repository structure; for example 
a model file alongside a configuration file, both with static names.

However, this is not always the case. You may choose to have a more flexible approach without sticking to a specific 
file schema. This is what the authors of AllenNLP chose to do for instance. In that case `snapshot_download` comes 

> in handy: it downloads a whole snapshot of a repo's files at the specified revision. All files are nested inside a 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
in handy: it downloads a whole snapshot of a repo's files at the specified revision, without having to have git or git-lfs installed. All files are nested inside a 
```

- The `Repository` class.

### `HfApi`

The `HfApi` class is a low level class that acts as a thin wrapper around HTTP requests. It has no dependency
other than `requests`, and can handle repository creation and deletion, repository visibility, model search, as well
as file uploads.

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()
```

This class contains a few methods we're interested in: `create_repo` and `upload_file`.

While up to now we didn't need any authorization token to download files from public repositories, we will 
need one to create a repository and upload files to it. You can retrieve your token using the `HfFolder`:

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfFolder
>>> folder = HfFolder()
>>> token = folder.get_token()
```

#### `create_repo`

The `create_repo` method may be used to create a repository directly on the model hub. Once you have your 
token in hand

```python
>>> from huggingface_hub import HfApi
>>> api = HfApi()
>>> api.create_repo(token, "test-model")
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/test-model'
```

You can choose to create repository privately, and to upload it to an organization you are part of.

#### `upload_file`

> The `upload_file` method may be used to upload files to a repository directly on the model hub. It needs a 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `upload_file` method may be used to upload files to a repository directly on the model hub (bypassing git and git-lfs). It needs a 
```

token, a path to a file, the final path in the repo, as well as the ID of the repo we're pushing to.

```python
>>> api.upload_file(
...	token, 
...	path_or_fileobj="/home/lysandre/dummy-test/README.md", 
...	path_in_repo="README.md", 
...	repo_id="lysandre/test-model"
... )
'https://huggingface.co/lysandre/test-model/blob/main/README.md'
```

### `Repository`

> The `Repository` class is thought differently to the `HfApi` class: it is a wrapper over usual git & git-lfs methods.

Reviewer 4: This sentence sounds a little awkward. Maybe something like:

```suggestion
The `Repository` class, on the other hand, is a wrapper over git & git-lfs methods.
```

Reviewer 3: > The `Repository` class is the main way to programmatically push models or other repos to huggingface.co, and it is simply a wrapper over git & git-lfs methods.

  [open an issue](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/issues/new) so that we may take a  look and help 
  you out.

For additional information, please take a look at the README available in the`api-inference-community` [folder](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/tree/main/api-inference-community). 
This README contains information about the tests necessary to ensure that your library's docker image will continue working.

### Code sample

For users to understand how the model should be used in your downstream library, we recommend adding a code snippet 
explaining how that should be done. In order to do this, please take a look and update the following file with 
mentions of your library: [interfaces/Libraries.ts](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/interfaces/Libraries.ts). 
This file is in Typescript as this is the ground truth that we're using on the Hugging Face website. A good 
understanding of Typescript isn't necessary to edit the file.

Additionally, this will add a tag with which users may filter models. All models from your library will 
be easily identifiable!

> If you're adding a new pipeline, you might also want to take a look at adding it to the 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you're adding a new pipeline type, you might also want to take a look at adding it to the 
```

[Types.ts](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/interfaces/Types.ts) for it to be identifiable 
as a possible pipeline.

Secondly, you should set the 

> [widget default for that pipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/interfaces/DefaultWidget.ts).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[widget default for that new pipeline](https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/blob/main/interfaces/DefaultWidget.ts) if you can.
```

---
title: Adding your Library
---

# Integrating your library to the Hub

## Introduction

The Hugging Face Hub aims to facilitate the sharing of machine learning models, checkpoints, and artifacts.  This endeavor starts with the integration of its tool stack within downstream libraries, and we're happy to announce  the fruitful collaboration between Hugging Face and spaCy, AllenNLP, and Timm, among many other incredible libraries.

**For a full list of supported libraries, see [the following table](/docs/libraries).**

We believe the Hub is a step in the correct direction for several reasons. It offers:

> - Free model hosting for libraries and their users. Custom plans exist for users wishing to keep their models  private but keep the ease of use.

Reviewer 2: Actually, private models are generally available now, without a need for a paid plan :)

Reviewer: Heh that's a good point :) 

I'm actually wondering if I should remove the sentence completely. After all, we're still figuring out private models for 3rd party libraries (see https://github.com/huggingface/huggingface_hub/issues/85)
